Feat: create repo guide (#806)
ipfs/ipfs-docs: docs/project/repository-guide.md

---
title: Repository guide
description: A quick guide to the most important and most frequently used IPFS repositories.
---

# IPFS repository guide

IPFS is a _big_ open-source project, and with that comes a lot of code — and a lot of issue-based discussion that goes with it. The IPFS project uses GitHub both for code development and for roadmapping and operations discussions, meaning that both types of activities can happen asynchronously, in the open, and from anywhere on the planet.

> If you're looking for specific IPFS-related code, or want to find where to join in a particular discussion, start with this high-level guide to the most prominent and/or frequently used GitHub orgs and repos in the IPFS project. It's not an exhaustive list of all IPFS orgs and repos, but instead is intended to help guide you based on what you are trying to do in the following areas:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're looking for specific IPFS-related code or want to find where to join in a particular discussion, start with this high-level guide to the most prominent and frequently used GitHub organizations and repositories in the IPFS project. It's not an exhaustive list of all IPFS organizations and repositories, but instead is intended to help guide you based on what you are trying to do in the following areas:
```

- [Fetching or contributing to IPFS code](#fetch-or-contribute-to-ipfs-code)
- [Participating in IPFS project operations](#participate-in-ipfs-project-operations)
- [Discussing ideas for using IPFS](#discuss-ideas-for-using-ipfs)

## Fetch or contribute to IPFS code

> Org and repo links for the top-level projects shipped as part of the IPFS project, and the main repos for each ingredient in the stack upon which IPFS is built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organization and repository links for the top-level projects shipped as part of the IPFS project and the main repos for each ingredient in the stack upon which IPFS is built.
```

### Protocol implementations

- [go-ipfs](https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs): The reference implementation written in Go.
- [js-ipfs](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs): The JavaScript implementation of IPFS.
- [rust-ipfs](https://github.com/rs-ipfs/rust-ipfs): Alpha implementation in Rust.

> 

Reviewer 2: can you add a link after this list to https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs#protocol-implementations for the full list

- [Multiformats](https://github.com/multiformats):
    - [Multiaddr](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr): Composable and future-proof network addresses.
    - [Multibase](https://github.com/multiformats/multibase): Self-identifying base encodings.
    - [Multicodec](https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec): Compact, self-describing codecs.
    - [Multihash](https://github.com/multiformats/multihash): Self-describing hashes for future-proofing.

### IPFS tools and products

- [IPFS Cluster](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-cluster): Automatically allocate, replicate, and track your data as a global pinset distributed among a swarm of peers.
- [IPFS Companion](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-companion): The IPFS web browser extension.
- [IPFS Web UI](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui): An easy-to-use web interface for IPFS nodes.
- [IPFS Desktop](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop): Standalone IPFS app with an easy-to-use node interface, plus menubar/tray shortcuts
- [ipfs-gui](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-gui): Coordinating development, user experience, and maintenance of IPFS GUIs.

> - [i18n](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/i18n): The IPFS Translation Project, crowdsourcing translations of IPFS GUIs and websites.

Reviewer 2: i18n should probably be pulled out into a separate subsection, maybe the Participate section below?

- [IPFS Shipyard](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard): GitHub org showcasing incubated projects of all types created by the global IPFS community.
- [Testground](https://github.com/testground/testground): A platform for testing, benchmarking, and simulating distributed and p2p systems at scale.

### Interoperability, platforms, and standards

> - [IPFS Web Browsers Integration Group](https://github.com/ipfs/in-web-browsers): Tracking progress toward native IPFS support in web browsers.

Reviewer 2: s/Group//

- [Are We Distributed Yet?](https://github.com/arewedistributedyet/arewedistributedyet): Prioritized listing of progress toward making peer-to-peer a first-class part of the web.
- [IPFS Mobile Design Guidelines](https://github.com/ipfs/mobile-design-guidelines): Best practices for making IPFS work for mobile.
- [Interoperability Tests for IPFS](https://github.com/ipfs/interop): On-the-wire interop for IPFS.

## Participate in IPFS project operations

IPFS project operations at large are also captured in GitHub. These repos don't necessarily contain code but do follow a similar pattern of issue creation, discussion, and resolution via comments and linked artifacts.

- [IPFS Community](https://github.com/ipfs/community)
- [IPFS Project Roadmap](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap)
- [IPFS Specifications](https://github.com/ipfs/specs)
- [IPFS Infrastructure](https://github.com/ipfs/infra)
- [IPFS Team Planning, Management, and Coordination](https://github.com/ipfs/team-mgmt)

> ## Discuss ideas for using IPFS

Reviewer 2: Can you add a link to the ipfs/community discussions board to this section? it's also a place where people are using IPFS and talking about it

https://github.com/ipfs/community/discussions
